Lilliana Robinson: So Neil's on the line. He's gonna pepper in some questions. But this is really a workshop I created. Probably like 7 programs ago, 6 or 7 programs ago. It was for our fourth program.
Lilliana Robinson: and I realized over time that our founders were going in to mentor my madness. Kind of blind.
Lilliana Robinson: They were going in, making the exact same mistakes that the previous group made. And it's really easy things where it I noticed that if we had told them beforehand, they would just not make those mistakes. Also, you guys benefit from not being our first, second, or third programs where we don't have as much data at this point. We've done mentor madness 11 times, cause it's our tenth and 11 programs. So
Lilliana Robinson: we have a lot of data for what mentors like, what mistakes founders have made. So I thought, why don't I just give the feedback that everybody says to the founders at the end up front, and then it drastically changed. How everybody performed a mentor at this! Mentors were a lot happier with the founders. The founders had a better experience. So that's what I started doing in 2022. So
Lilliana Robinson: that's what we'll do today. I have a whole deck. I'm gonna go through. And then at the end. We'll just spend the rest of the time with questions, cause it won't take that long. It's a rather short deck but feel free to ask questions during as well. You can just unmute, because I'm not going to be patrolling the chat. But this is just between us. So this is like
Lilliana Robinson: me giving you the rundown, and this there's some real quotes from mentors in the past. I don't say who they are, but all of this should just kind of be kept confidential. This is like a little real talk between me and you guys on how to handle mentors.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool. Okay, fern is gonna monitor the chat. So if you don't wanna unmute, you can pop it in there.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, let's start
Lilliana Robinson: alright.
Lilliana Robinson: Quote.
Lilliana Robinson: All right. Let me just put you guys up here perfect. So this is mentor madness. Prep.
Lilliana Robinson: So we'll start with tips for beforehand. First, you're going to do a lot of things beforehand to prep. That's why, we have this session to day. Wednesday. We used to have it on Friday, and it was way too close to starting on Monday. So I'm giving this to you guys today so that you guys can start doing all of this work. The first thing create a way to track mentor research and follow ups. I'm actually gonna defer this point to Ferona. Because this is so important that last program we actually had Ferona start
Lilliana Robinson: doing a whole workshop on this point in front of. If you also want to talk about how your your program works together, like, specifically your co-founder, Sam, had everyone worked together on a spreadsheet.
Ferrona Lie: So we
Ferrona Lie: have a total of, I believe, 40 mentors of the meeting, the whole cohort, and so as opposed to having each of you do or each of us did a research.
Ferrona Lie: We actually just kind of divvy up and conquer between all the top companies and Michael at the time to research the mentors. I will show you how
Ferrona Lie: the end results. Look like later this afternoon. But the idea is that
Ferrona Lie: let's say you have 24 companies right now, which is great. Which means that technically, each of you can just do deep
Ferrona Lie: research about one to 2 mentors to cover
Ferrona Lie: all 40 mentors that actually don't remember off the top of my head how many mentors you are going to meet, so it might be more than 40 since there's 2 cohorts running
Ferrona Lie: but that's the idea. So you can make the into their profiles, and and divide between 2 of you between 2 call
Lilliana Robinson: awesome. And that list is gonna come out tomorrow end of day at the latest. So you guys will be able to start doing that tomorrow. Verona's workshop this afternoon we'll go into a little bit more detail on how to do that which is a treat for you guys, because a lot of our other cohorts have had to figure it out themselves. So I think that's awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: So you're gonna create a way to track mentor research. But this point also says you're gonna create a way to track follow ups. So not only are you researching these mentors beforehand and research, Fernando will get into, but basically their background relevant points that you can ask them.
Lilliana Robinson: You're also going to track, follow ups if you don't create a way to track, follow ups. And when I say, create a way most people use Google sheets. You could use Hubspot. You could do. However, you want to do it. You can even do it on notion or pen and paper follow ups are very important.
Lilliana Robinson: You're going to have to send. Thank yous, and you're going to have to follow up with any action point that the mentor gave you, and I'll get into that with the afterward cause. This is beforehand. But basically that should all be on the same CRM. Spreadsheet.
Lilliana Robinson: Google, Doc. However, you want to do it
Lilliana Robinson: also beforehand. This is extremely important. We require you guys to send an email to each mentor. You're meeting with introducing yourself and your business at least 24 h in advance. And honestly, this is standard practice, for every time you guys have a meeting. So mentor, madness is really almost like a home training for how to interact with people from here on out. So all of these standards that we're requiring, because that's part of what people expect from our cohort is
Lilliana Robinson: exactly what you should do, going forward. So every time you have a meeting with an EIR. An investor, a mentor outside of Mentor madness. You should be doing this hygiene as well. But that being said, this is a lot of people's first time like
Lilliana Robinson: having this sort of structure around meetings. So I like to go into it in detail.
Lilliana Robinson: You're going to send an email to each mentor that you're going to meet with. So the people you're meeting with on Wednesday, you email on Tuesday. And that's at the latest, because they actually prefer 48 h before, but the requirement is at least 24.
Lilliana Robinson: Do not be offended if the Mentor did not have time to read this email because they still check if you sent it. So, whether they have read your agenda or not, it matters that you've sent it. We actually asked them in the debrief who has sent the email. And we write down like, how many of you guys sent the emails beforehand? Jayla?
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: Okay, really quick question. So
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: for our groups, there's me 4 companies with each group. So should we be sending one email to the Mentor for all 4 companies, or should each company send one email to the mentor? Or should each person from each company send an email to the mentor? It's a good question. The answer is the second one.
Lilliana Robinson: So one email per company to the mentor, the fact that you're in a group, you guys aren't going to be in groups meeting with the mentor. That's just your shared slot. So you're gonna share. It's in breakout rooms. Can you guys meet yourself in the conference room?
Lilliana Robinson: Perfect? It's shared, Zoom. But you guys are going to be one on one. And so it's like, it's a mentor to company connection. Also, the reason the cofounders don't send separate ones. Is that what seem disparate? You guys are on one team. So
Lilliana Robinson: one company, one email per mentor. That was a great question, Jayla. No one's ever asked that, David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): are we engaging with all 40 mentors?
Lilliana Robinson: good question, too. No. So it's a variety. So you guys will probably meet between 20 like 20 and 30 people.
Lilliana Robinson: Because our 24 of you. So Kate and Chloe, and then and Ferna has help. They've done incredible math to just kind of like do the logistics. You're gonna research, all of them, and a good reason for all of you to research all of them, even if they're not on your schedule for mentor madness is that we have ad hoc mentorship after this. So after mentor madness, we're gonna give you a list of like all our mentors. And you can also access it online. And you're gonna be able to ask for 10 to 15,
Lilliana Robinson: 15 warm intros to have calls with those people will actually send them your calendar. So if you research a mentor for this to help your classmates, and they're they end up, not on your schedule. You'll just meet with them in the coming weeks. So take note if there's someone you research. Oh, I really wish that that person was on my schedule. We've tried to make relevant people meet with relevant companies.
Lilliana Robinson: But there are a few where the mentors just didn't have the availability for certain slots. So what would be a good connection we can do in the ad hoc mentorship. Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: yeah, see multiple blocks like 4 blocks for the first and 4 blocks for the second week, so I will never meet the same same mentor. Correct it will every every time will be a different mentor for half an hour. Blocks. Correct. Yes, that's correct.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and it's only in your time, so you don't have to do all 3 blocks. It's just one per day
Lilliana Robinson: in your assigned time, Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: So you you've already assigned the mentors to each company.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we're working on finalizing it. So Chloe will have it by the end of the day tomorrow.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So if based on the research that we do, there's a mentor that is not assigned to us that we like to talk to. Can we ask you to. We call that ad hoc mentors. So starting in week 5, well, I'll send out a post about it. But basically we open up all our mentors. To you guys, you can research, you can choose 10 to 15, and we'll send out like warm emails to them with your calendar saying, this, this
Lilliana Robinson: company wants to meet with you, and usually we get about a one-third hit rate from that, like one third of those will turn into full meetings. Other ones, they'll reply via email. And then one third won't reply. So it's a pretty good hit rate for that that's called ad hoc mentorship. So anyone that you see that you don't get to meet with will make sure you get a meeting later.
Lilliana Robinson: Vincent.
Vincent Lucero: Yeah, my question was just kind of more about learning more of how you guys think about who to assign mentors to? Is it driven by the discussions that we had in person in Oakland, where we met some of the mentors? Or is it more? You guys know the backgrounds of each mentor? And what we probably need?
Vincent Lucero: Yeah, it's background. Okay, got it cool.
Lilliana Robinson: And a lot of that is like these are just great people. Some of them are super connectors or just experts. So like, you might see someone and be like, what does this have to do with my industry? It's not always industry based. Sometimes it's like, we know, you had a certain problem that this person has seen before. Sometimes it's like we think you would really get along with this mentor. Maybe they could be an advisor. So it's kind of nuanced. We I you're not going to be able to like initially. Just see why we put you but a lot of thought goes into it. Nikki?
Nikki Corbett - PairAnything: Okay? So the next 2 weeks, when we're having these sessions, we're gonna be meeting with different people. And then a portion of those will end up being our mentors over the next the following weeks.
Lilliana Robinson: No, so I'll explain. Lead mentors in a bit. I have a whole slide for it. So this is just a one time 2 week sprint where you're meeting with a bunch of mentors with no for further stuff. But I'll get into what could happen later.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, 30 min. You're gonna give them a brief about your business, and then they'll tell you what they think. And then any. The research goes into it because you should have an objective for each meeting. I'm gonna get into all of this in this. I'll just pause.
Lilliana Robinson: Dotan.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Yeah, sorry. Just wanted to confirm. It's okay.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: the the whole team, or in in our case it's 2 co-founders. Go on the call, and if you suggest to do that. Or it's better to do a one on one. Sometimes a one on one dynamic actually ends up creating a better flow.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's a great question. So one on one is great. I do recommend that if if you are able, I know we have a lot of solo founders.
Lilliana Robinson: Have someone come on the call with you as a notetaker kind of like Jtvd.
Lilliana Robinson: You're more than welcome to have your whole team there. Here are the caveats, one the CEO should always be present unless it's an extremely technical mentor where you feel that your CTO. Would represent your business. Well, most of the mentors are expecting to meet the CEO, and they feel disappointed when the CEO isn't there?
Lilliana Robinson: 2? It's much better to not be alone. So even if you have like an intern or something. If you're solo, and if you have a Co founder that's available, I would bring them in because we're not recording these meetings. The mentors don't like that. So you need someone to take notes for you.
Lilliana Robinson: Third, if you have a large team, I would not have more than 3 people on the call so I would choose, based on who the mentor is which people. So I'm thinking about dub prime. I'm thinking about other people who have like more than 3 team members it just gets
Lilliana Robinson: oh, it becomes a lot. And like it's a weird dynamic with the mentor. Once you get like 4 plus people on there, I would keep it to 3. So anywhere from 2 to 3 people as the sweet spot. If you have to take a call by yourself because you're a solo founder. It's not the end of the world. It's just harder to notetake. So I would try to get someone. One time we had a solo founder who just got his friend come like he just had a friend that worked somewhere else, and he just came from Mentor madness to not take. So you can be scrappy like that?
Lilliana Robinson: Pardon.
Pardo Walter: Yeah. Well, all of these mentor madness assignments end up being remote. Or will any of these mentor madness meetings also be a mixture of in person.
Lilliana Robinson: These will all be virtual. So we run mentors virtually.
okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Good question.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'm gonna keep going. I'm sure things will be revealed later. David, you can ask your question really quick.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Oh, yeah. My question was around. I know you said we should be coming into each of these calls with an objective. But wha what is like the objective the mentors are coming in with, like. what are they spending?
Lilliana Robinson: So I'll get into what you guys need to set as your objective. But for the mentor side, which I like that question, they're coming in for multiple things. So those who are on John Hill's workshop
Lilliana Robinson: right before this, he said. Like mentors come altruistically. So one, they're coming altruistically. 2. They're coming because we've we have a good relationship with them. So a lot of them are like Neil's personal friends, my network Ferna has extended her network, so has Naji they're coming to help you. They're coming to learn about your business.
Lilliana Robinson: and they're coming to offer their opinion on your business and answer any questions that you have so like they have nothing prepared. They're coming in here waiting for you to drive the call, but they're also comfortable, taking over the call to drive it. Once they realize, like the things you need help with or what your business is.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that answer your question?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yes, thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So you're gonna send an email introducing yourself and your business. This should include an objective and an agenda. So in this email, you're gonna say, Hi, I'm David CEO of Tux.
Lilliana Robinson: we do. Xyz. Quick. One liner like not not an in depth thing. It could be one to 2 lines. We do. Xyz. You can check us out here. I based on your background like I love how you worked at this, or I know you experience like, I read on your blog, you experienced an issue with like a customer acquisition funnel. I'd love to talk to you about that today, or it's like I saw that you have a lot of experience in the retail space. And like we're really struggling to on board
Lilliana Robinson: restaurants cake. I'd love to talk to you about that, or you can even say, 1, 2, 3, if you have like multiple points. And you could say, like, my objective is really to just hear your opinion on these things.
Lilliana Robinson: and I'll get into do's and doads. But spoiler, alert. One of the don'ts is like just to get on there and be like I just wanted to hear about your background
Lilliana Robinson: because a lot of people you've already heard some of our workshop presenters say this. It's like just Google. Me. Neil has even said that. They're not here to just like, give you their founder story because they've told it 10,000 times. They wanna help you
Lilliana Robinson: next anticipate possible questions and prepare answers. This is huge. So beforehand, in addition to mentor research and sending these emails to the mentors on your back end, you should think about the things that mentors may be asking you about your company about the status of your company right now prepare, answers. The worst thing you could do is be unprepared, and then kind of ramble or stumble through answers because you're not prepared to speak to your business.
Lilliana Robinson: You all know that for the next 2 weeks you're gonna be speaking about your business to these mentors. So what might they ask you? And how can you prepare to have answers for that?
Lilliana Robinson: Create an objective for each meeting based on the mentors experience. So I just kind of went into that.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's switch to during the meetings. So that's everything you need to do. Pre. This is during during the meetings. You're gonna start the meeting off after you say hello
Lilliana Robinson: with a well practiced 1 min elevator pitch. This is extremely important that you keep it to 1 min. One of the biggest flaws that my founders make in mentor madness is speaking for multiple minutes at the start of the call. The calls are only 25 min, because we give a 5 min break to the mentors, so they're only 25 min.
Lilliana Robinson: taking up more than 1 min with you. Pitching. Your business is a waste of time. You should be crispy and concise, and practice this so that you can just get it across. Help the mentor understand? Sometimes they'll even pause you in the middle of it and say, Okay, I understand your business. Let's get on. If you speak for more than this, the mentors are gonna feel like this is a waste of time, cause they're not.
Lilliana Robinson: You're there to hear from them. They're not there to just hear from you. So you want to communicate as quickly as possible what your business does help them understand? And then you guys can get on with the meeting so you can get value.
Lilliana Robinson: Here's an example. Hi, I'm blank and we help solve blank through or using blank. I'd love to talk to you today about Blank, because blank, and that because you can probably guess, is based on your research of them. And that shows a really thoughtful entrepreneur. Someone who says it in this format is pointed, prepared.
Lilliana Robinson: not trying to like, speak for hours, but really ready to listen, and ready to extract value from this conversation. And this makes a mentor want to help. If you come in with this, they're gonna say, Okay, let's go like, how can I help you? And they're gonna want to help you? The whole thing I'm trying to do here is help you guys get the mentors to want to help you in the maximum way possible.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's this.
Lilliana Robinson: Here's some do's and don'ts. Don't talk the whole time. I think I just got at this. But II just cannot say this enough, because.
Lilliana Robinson: including me, everyone who has been a founder or is a founder, just loves to talk about their product project and their adventure. But these mentors want to give you help. So if you talk the whole time, the mentors aren't going to be able to give you help. You're really there to be a listener. You're there to speak, to get them on the same page, and to drive the conversation based on your questions and objectives you've prepared, but you're really there to be a listener
Lilliana Robinson: at the end of the day, so they should be speaking more than you. And this sounds really harsh. But I'm trying to give you guys tough love from mistakes your predecessors have made.
Lilliana Robinson: you can get value out of every meeting. This is extremely important. We said this in orientation, but I'm saying it again. Some of I've had founders who think they'll look at it and say like, oh, like I don't need help with legal. I don't need help with marketing or branding. I don't need help with techno like technical side cause I'm pre product like, and then they'll either
Lilliana Robinson: just kind of not give value to the meeting and float through it. And the mentor feels offended that you didn't give value or try to extract value from the meeting, or they'll skip the meeting, which is extremely unacceptable cause we've worked a lot to get these mentors to come meet with you, and then that mentor is gonna tell their friends that you did that, or they'll come in and just tell the mentor like I don't think you can help me, which is the worst of all of those options. Don't do any of that. Trust us that every person that we're having you meet with is here to give you value.
Lilliana Robinson: trust that they can give you connections. So if they don't, if they don't personally know the answer to something they can connect you to someone that can trust, that we made it the connection between your company and that mentor. For a reason you may not see the reason right upfront, but the person is there to provide value. So I challenge you to try to extract value out of every meeting.
Lilliana Robinson: If for some reason you have tried to extract value out of a meeting, and you really didn't find it. I wanna hear that, because if you tried, and the person did not provide that value. I will kick them out of mentor madness. That's how seriously I take this cause. I really believe that all of these people are here to give you value, and if you try, and something happens
Lilliana Robinson: whether they are inappropriate in any manner, they try to sell you something, or you feel that they do not provide value. Or maybe they didn't take it seriously.
Lilliana Robinson: I wanna know that. And we're gonna give you guys surveys on all of these people where you can give your very candid advice on what you thought about them. So I take that extremely seriously like, that's a promise. If you have a problem with it, we're gonna address it pretty harshly
Lilliana Robinson: if they can't help. Who might. They know that can help? That's very, very good to ask if they say they don't know, or they don't have experience to answer the question that you wanted them to answer. Who might they know that can help. That's the next question you should ask.
Lilliana Robinson: Do research each mentor beforehand don't ask them to tell you their background. So when you get on the call you should already know about their background. They don't want to spend time talking about themselves in that manner. They'll tell you stories from their lives and their their experience, if it's relevant to help you in the area that you're asking about. But if you get on and generally ask them like, oh, I saw that you were in.
Lilliana Robinson: You were in like the deep tech space just like, tell me about how that was.
Lilliana Robinson: That's not really gonna help your business progress. And as a waste of their time, so these pointed asks are what we're trying to get at, and you need to already know their background before. You don't have to know every single thing about them, though I've had some founders like try to memorize where everybody worked and, like all this different stuff. You don't have to do that just generally know their background in the way that it's relevant to you so that you can ask them about it.
Lilliana Robinson: Be prepared to hear criticism. Don't take negative feedback personally, it will only help you grow so like kind of answering. Nikki's question are like, what is the purpose of these 2 weeks? It's really to get you in front of as many people that we find valuable as possible, so you can get the most looks at your business and the most
Lilliana Robinson: constructive feedback as possible. So the whole point here is really to get that negative feedback. If you don't get a lot of negative feedback, it's not as useful of an experience. So the founders that get the harshest criticisms actually come out of mentor madness with the most growth. So I really appreciate when the mentors are pretty harsh with some of my companies.
Lilliana Robinson: and you should go in there knowing this. So this is not a kind of like
Lilliana Robinson: a fluffy sunshine and rainbows. 2 weeks. These people are here to really drill into your business cause. We're going to be in week 3 and 4 of programme. You're already part of tech stars, and you're here to hear this.
Lilliana Robinson: That is the value we promised you at the start of program that we would help your business grow. That's why we call it an accelerator. So hearing criticism is part of this.
Lilliana Robinson: you should take it with a thick skin, and the most important thing is to know that they are not attacking you as a person.
Lilliana Robinson: They're telling you about your business so that you can grow and succeed. None of them want your businesses to fail. If they tell you something really harsh, it's out of love and out of altruism.
Lilliana Robinson: and none of it has to do with you as founders like we said at orientation, each of you. We believe in you guys. We don't believe in all of your. We really don't believe in any of your business ideas as they stand, because none of them will be what they are. At the end of 13 weeks, or in a few years. You guys as founders are amazing, your businesses are subject to change, so don't feel so attached to to what's going on in your company that you won't be able to take feedback. Well.
Lilliana Robinson: a good example here
Lilliana Robinson: is the CEO really reflects the business, and there are some, even, maybe seemingly personal pieces of feedback that my founders have received where some of them took it pretty harshly. I'll tell you some, for example, one CEO speaks extremely quickly. She knows that she says that she does, but the all of the mentors consistently told her, like you need to slow down with your speech, or you're not going to be able to pitch. You're not going to be
Lilliana Robinson: able to get investment. You're not going to be able to explain your business to key stakeholders. You need to slow down. That was really hard to hear, because they were pretty harsh about it. But even that piece of criticism is not attacking her as a person that is just trying to help the CEO of this business be a better orator
Lilliana Robinson: to achieve success. So I say that example to like show you guys the level of criticism you may get it may feel personal, but it's not.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have questions about criticism. Because this is a really important piece. Yeah, Ally
Alejandra Guillen: J, just not so much criticism, but I expect that they will give feedback in real time during the conversations. But is there any type of report feedback that comes out of like them getting together and talking about the companies?
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right. Thank you for asking that. So the biggest value out of mentor madness is not actually what they say to you guys. It's what they say to us. So at the end of every session our team runs a debrief, a confidential debrief without you guys in the room, and our associates take notes, and we scraped all the names out of that. And then we anonymous. We anonymize everything and give you guys a sheet of all the feedback that everybody said.
Lilliana Robinson: And this is what usually hurts people's feelings. So you guys will get that, and we'll give you a long weekend to digest it, and then we'll come back in person in week 5, and we'll talk about it because it's going to be some some tough love.
Lilliana Robinson: Sometimes it's extremely complimentary, sometimes it's a mix of both. And remember they're saying this without you in the room, knowing that it's going to be given to you so that you can like use it to then iterate your business, so you will receive some feedback in person, but most people will say it to me, and Neil and the team afterward
Lilliana Robinson: will come, but will conglomerate it and distribute it after Mentor. Madness.
Alejandra Guillen: Yes, so just a quick follow up. So there's no no feedback in in the end of week 3. It's all at the end of week 5, so that we can cross correct a little bit.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it comes at the end of week 4. So after we finish mentor madness. The the reason that we don't so pretty much everything that you guys ask is about we've tried. So the reason we don't give it at the end of week. 3 is we did that one time, and it caused the founders it really tripped them up. So everyone was doing pretty well in week 3, and then we gave them the feedback so far, and then every company
Lilliana Robinson: did terribly. In week 4, I think everyone got in their heads. They were thinking about the feedback from the last week. They were kind, of course, correcting before finishing Mentor madness, and it was just a disaster, so we always save it till the end of week 4,
Lilliana Robinson: and our associates will need a couple of days to like aggregate it, so it'll actually come like at the beginning of week. 5.
David Akinyemi (he/him): You, said Dave. Right? Say how much of this is like
David Akinyemi (he/him): being spoken to as opposed to like a discussion like, I'm cool. Being like I. I'm just curious, like, how much of this can can it be like
David Akinyemi (he/him): problem solving?
David Akinyemi (he/him): I don't know, like I feel like when we work with the associates, so when we work with you as a lead, it never is kind of like, just like, sit and listen. I wonder.
David Akinyemi (he/him): is this? Is this what this is supposed to be? I'm just trying to kind of prepare for it.
Lilliana Robinson: Can you explain your question a little more
David Akinyemi (he/him): like a lot of the times. There's like collaborative sparring where it's like, they may have an idea. And like, you can duck. Oh, yeah,
Lilliana Robinson: but maybe that's not what this is. I don't want to come in a conversation expecting it kinda like have discourse where it's like. No, this is just like kind of listen. Kind of thing. That's a very good question. So like, how much do you push back on the mentors? And how much are you just listening? So my rule is just, don't argue with the mentors, so everything is appropriate. You can spar. You can like.
Lilliana Robinson: talk back and forth and kind of collaborate.
Lilliana Robinson: Just don't argue so I've had one. I had one founder that straight up, argued with a mentor, and just kept telling them how like their opinion about the business is wrong, they can feel how they feel about the business. You do not need to argue with them. If they say something won't work like you can just agree to disagree. You don't have to convince the mentor to be on your side like some mentors will just not believe in whatever you're doing, and they'll just give you
Lilliana Robinson: harsh criticism, which is valid cause, even if you think that they're wrong, which, of course, we think that they're wrong because we invested in you. The things they say are still valid. So like whatever they're pointing out.
Lilliana Robinson: I would just not argue
Lilliana Robinson: elaborate and not argue. And I think that line is pretty clear. Does that make sense? David?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, definitely. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin.
Kevin: yeah, just a quick question. Obviously, as we're starting this process with kpis and goal setting. If we're during the mentor madness, we're getting insights from mentors where we decide and make a decision that certain things might shift and that actually affects our goals and our Kpis, is that something that we should be letting you guys know like, Hey, we're gonna chant, you know, change our direction of our Kpis at this point in time.
Lilliana Robinson: due to result of the meeting that we have with a mentor that's awesome. I you should definitely be changing things as a result of meetings. I think that's great. Those are 2 separate things. So for goals. First, yes, I would let Ferona and Sophie, know that you're changing those goals? Just so we know what you guys are aiming at and how to help. If something's not relevant anymore, like, let us know. If you have a new goal, let us know that, too, so we can help
Lilliana Robinson: with Kpis. You don't have to give us an update like, hey? I'm changing my Kpis because Kpis are gonna be weekly. So you're gonna present tomorrow, which I'll post about on base camp later today. And then you're going to have Async Kpis during mentor madness, which I'll also post about on Friday.
Lilliana Robinson: So on weeks 3 and 4 it'll be Async and then starting in week 5 it'll be synchronous. So you never have to like, give us an update in between that like, hey? This is changing. We'll just see it in your next update.
Kevin: Great.
Lilliana Robinson: but that's great. You should be updating your metrics in how you're doing things based on the feedback you get. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: So they are not criticizing you as a person they are giving you constructive feedback about your business.
Lilliana Robinson: Do be humble, be curious. Humility is extremely appreciated as an entrepreneur. The more you're willing to put a like. Put aside your ego and learn from these people the better. Be curious. Have lots of questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Be comfortable, saying you don't know.
Lilliana Robinson: One piece of feedback I've gotten from about many founders is when a Mentor asks them something that they don't know. Instead of saying they don't know or saying I don't know. I can get back to you. I can follow up or saying I don't know. Could you tell me, or could you help me, or what should that be? They'll like? Beat around the bush and try to meander until they find the answer, and they never find the answer, and then you've burned like 5 min, just when you could have just said, you don't know. So it's okay to not know these
Lilliana Robinson: mentors, and pretty much. Everyone you meet know that you guys are doing early stage startups. So it's actually extremely appreciated when you say you don't know. And you act like a sponge, and you just absorb all the knowledge. So don't be afraid to say you don't know.
Lilliana Robinson: Do ask questions, lots and lots of questions. Don't ask for money. This is a big one. We have had this happen, I think, 2 times, and it was a big deal, because the mentors really
Lilliana Robinson: some of them are angels, some of them work for Vcs. And they're here to mentor you.
Lilliana Robinson: Could that blossom into a relationship where you do one day receive investment from them absolutely. But they're not coming to mentor madness to be pitched for money. So it's really important, like, everyone has always said, like, if you want money, ask for advice. So
Lilliana Robinson: these people are here to give. They're here to get to know you. They may find a certain interest in a few of you, and then want to follow up. But this mentor madness, meaning is not to pitch them for investment.
Lilliana Robinson: If the person on the other end brings it up.
Lilliana Robinson: That is a different story. So I've had a couple of people basically say, like, actually, I'm really interested in angel investing like you should follow up. You don't have to say like, no, I can't do that. If they bring it up, it's okay. But just don't expect them to. That rarely happens during these meetings.
Lilliana Robinson: That would only be after you establish a relationship have have been meeting with this person a couple of times. So just put that out of your mind. This isn't a fundraising opportunity. Really, this is to get you guys to be fundable. This is to build your business. But it's not going to be like investor meetings.
Lilliana Robinson: mentor, whiplash. You guys probably remember this from orientation, but that is when mentors have conflicting advice. You're going to be meeting with 3 or 4 per day.
Lilliana Robinson: you might sit in one meeting and then switch to another. 5 min later and hear completely opposing advice. We talked about Jake from zest on the retreat, and something that Jake did which he learned from Bob Mestam is to
Lilliana Robinson: map out what everybody says on a certain issue, and then find key points and key points of like patterns and recognize the patterns. For example, if you ask them all what customer acquisition, strategy you should be going with, and you lay out 3 different strategies, and you ask them which one they think is best. Take note of how many mentors say which one, if 15 of the 20 you meet with say the first one.
Lilliana Robinson: you can probably guess that it's the first one, regardless of the fact that 5 people said, no. So I think a lot of people get tripped up on the fact that, like unanimously, everyone didn't just tell you the same thing of what to do.
Lilliana Robinson: That's just one strategy. Jake did majority rules, or at least majority
Lilliana Robinson: the rules for What path you should be most interested in at the end of the day. It's you making the decision. The mentors are not ruling that decision, but
Lilliana Robinson: he saw energy there. So if the most majority of people. You talk to tell you that this one route is the best way to go. You should talk to your team about it. It seems like this is the best route. Should we take it at the end of the day? Nobody is telling you how to run your business, and you also can take the route that nobody says.
Lilliana Robinson: That's an unc popular opinion. If every single mentor tells you to do something else, and you know in your heart that you want to try this other route. It's your business.
Lilliana Robinson: So take that with a grain of salt. Do we have things in the chat phone, or are we good
Lilliana Robinson: ever argue with the Mentor? So this is the same thing I was telling David. A lot of people will disagree if they disagree. You don't need to convince them that your way is right. You just take it with a grain of salt. You can agree to disagree your
Lilliana Robinson: your objective at the end of the day is not to convince everybody. It's just to take data. Neil always says like, it's just data. You're just collecting data from what everybody thinks that's why it's so so great to have questions and objectives preset. So that you know what you're collecting from each mentor. These are the 3 areas. We're having trouble. What do you think we should do for each of them? And then, at the end of Mentor madness, you can discuss all the feedback you got, and then decide what how to move forward.
Lilliana Robinson: We've designed a mentor madness, reflection survey
Lilliana Robinson: that will help you guys as a team
Lilliana Robinson: identify action items on how to take action on everything that you got as feedback. So you don't have to worry as much about like, wow! I'm getting all this feedback. How do I iterate based on it? How should I implement all of it? We can help you with that. You're just collecting this data.
Lilliana Robinson: That's funny, Vincent.
Lilliana Robinson: All right, be aware of where you're taking calls from. This would surprise some people, but a lot of mentors do not find it very professional when you take these calls from your phone when you take it from a noisy place, a place with poor Internet. We even had one mentor complain one time, and he was a great mentor. So I took it pretty seriously. He complained that the background, like, you see, I have the bridge. The virtual background was distracting.
Lilliana Robinson: It was just a plain white screen, kind of like, what Tommy has right now. But it was like behind him. And the mentor was like, II basically couldn't
Lilliana Robinson: pay attention to cause. It was just like this scorching white screen kind of what I have on the screen right now. It was very interesting. I hadn't thought of that before. But just be aware of your backgrounds like, don't have something super distracting behind you. Don't be in a loud place. Don't be in a place without Internet. Try not to take it mobile like definitely. Don't take it while you're doing something else. If you need to be driving or something. You should just have someone else take the meeting for you.
Lilliana Robinson: because this is a like this, mentor is giving you their time. So we want to show up with respect. Be prepared. Be ready.
Lilliana Robinson: and show up with the correct accommodations.
Lilliana Robinson: Lead mentors.
Lilliana Robinson: lead mentors are what we call ongoing mentorship relationships. I put this slide in every time to explain it. This is not
Lilliana Robinson: an official techstars like programmatic part of the experience. So it's not like eirs where we assign er's and you all get your eirs. Lead mentors are up to you guys. Let me define it, and then I'll explain how you can get get them.
Lilliana Robinson: The definition of a lead mentor is someone that is in the mentor network of tech stars who you really jive with. You meet, either from Mentor, madness from a mentor event we had like last Friday, or from ad hoc mentorship, which is you identifying mentors that you like, and then we facilitate meetings with you with them. Ad hoc.
Lilliana Robinson: If you find someone or a few people that you think are just awesome and, like you, wanna meet with them all the time you want their help.
Lilliana Robinson: You can ask them to be your lead mentor. It is very much the last class or a few classes ago, they said, it's like the bachelor you're extending the rows they can accept or reject.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's double opt in. Some mentors are in such high demand that multiple people will ask them, and they will just choose one or 2. You're not competing. The mentor will just choose who they think they can help best. So if they say no to you, you shouldn't feel too sad about it, because they make that decision based on their own availability and how much they think they can help you. So if someone says, No, that's of their own fruition, and you can just choose somebody else
Lilliana Robinson: reasons that they might say No, in addition to already having too many companies, is that they just don't have the bandwidth. So a lot of these mentors are making time during mentor madness, but they may not have time every single week.
Lilliana Robinson: So the definition of a lead mentor is someone that you ask double opt-in to meet with you on a weekly cadence. Sometimes it's bi-weekly, like every other depending on availability. And that's up to you guys. So you guys are facilitating that
Lilliana Robinson: if you'd like to meet with them after program that is completely like that's not part of the lead mentorship deal. So when you're asking them to be your lead mentor. You're basically asking them, do you want to meet with me weekly until week 13? After that a lot of people are not able to meet anymore. But rarely some people will be able to. You'll be able to keep. It's all up to how you manage the relationship.
Lilliana Robinson: So the way that you'll get a lead mentor or a few. We recommend no more than 3. We recommend every one have about one like at least one
Lilliana Robinson: and some people have chosen not to have lead mentors because they feel the eirs suffice. So it's completely up to you. If you're a solo founder. I don't recommend having more than 2, because it's a lot to manage.
Lilliana Robinson: If you have multiple team members, you could have about 3. So you guys can manage the relationship together. If you jive with somebody, you can send them an email in your follow up asking them.
Lilliana Robinson: You know I really appreciated our meeting to day. Do you want to be my lead mentor?
Lilliana Robinson: It's important to note that
Lilliana Robinson: all of our Chicago mentors should know what that is. So if you research someone that came from like our Chicago network. They'll know what lead mentors is. But a lot of our bay area met mentor network hasn't been with tech stars for that long. So they may not know what that is. You can explain to them and say, Hey, it's basically like a special mentor position unpaid. Obviously, where you're just meeting with me multiple times throughout the program, usually once a week. So you can explain it to them and see what they think
Lilliana Robinson: if they say Yes, then you guys are gonna be lead mentors. You don't really have to let us know, or anything like you can tell us if you are excited about it. But it's we're completely disconnected from this process. So I just wanna make that extremely clear, because even after I give this workshop. Sometimes people will ask me in a couple of weeks, like, Hey, when do we get our lead mentors?
Lilliana Robinson: That is up to you? You should ask them sooner rather than later. There are 24 companies, I'm sure a lot of you guys are gonna ask the same people cause we have some super stars.
Lilliana Robinson: but also just know that even if you don't get the people that you really want like, if they say no, we've taken the top people that people always ask, and we've just paid them, and those are our eirs.
Lilliana Robinson: So you don't have to worry about having a lack of mentorship. This is just a bonus.
Lilliana Robinson: Was that Matthew who had a question
Matthieu Bonnard: and sorry? I thought I reached through the the hand. And you answered my question.
Lilliana Robinson: oh, amazing. Okay, that's
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. So at what point like, would you recommend? We ask a mentor to be our lead mentor, like, completely after Mentor madness, or like after the first meeting. Yeah. Okay, so this is tricky. This is very much like dating. It's like, when do you propose to someone? It's like, when are you gonna make sure, because there are other efficiency, you wanna make sure this is like the person for you.
Lilliana Robinson: So I would recommend, maybe not. After the very first meeting you've had because you want to meet with other people. But maybe after the first week, when you realize, like, okay, so that that first call I had really is like the the person I've drived with the most. I want to ask them.
Lilliana Robinson: It's as soon as you can identify that like. This is the person. And of course you get like one to 3. So you're not gonna make a wrong choice and like not be able to ask someone else. But you don't want to ask too quickly where you haven't met everybody else. I have a feeling. When you guys get on, you're gonna have your very first mentor call. And you're gonna be like, this was amazing. Like, this is the person. But then you're gonna realize they're all amazing. And then you're gonna have to decide who could help you the most.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's really up to you guys, II think people have seen the most success
Lilliana Robinson: leaning toward the sooner rather than later side
Lilliana Robinson: just because they do get like asked a lot. And we want to be make sure that we respect their availabilities.
Lilliana Robinson: Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: yeah. So when we had our mentor intro here at the workspace there was a couple already that we bonded with, or they bonded with us and have already reached out offering to, you know, maybe explore how they can help. Should we wait
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: until we meet the other mentors? Or can we start
Lilliana Robinson: kind of see where that relationship takes us? Oh, yeah, okay. So to be clear, lead mentors does not mean that you guys should not have other mentors on the side. So like you should be having like a lot of mentors. This is a very specific relationship where you're meeting weekly with this person, and like they are called your lead mentor, which is, it's just entitle it literally just means that you're meeting weekly. This does not mean that you don't have other mentors. So Christy, like, I highly recommend
Lilliana Robinson: following up with that person. If you guys met other mentors that were great, that was the whole point of that meeting. So you should be having like 1, 2, 3 meetings with other mentors. It's just like, if you want to develop a very official cadence with someone. You can ask them to be your lead mentor.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Okay? Yeah. Cause I we were very touched that they that they kind of bonded with us. And
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: yeah, it was. It was very inspirational. That they reached out to us. So okay, thank you for answering that question.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so is everyone clear? Everyone should be like reaching out to mentors having as many mentors as you'd like. Mentor meetings meet, basically. But every mentor meeting you have is not with the defaults that you would have another meeting. So, like every everything outside of being a lead mentor is like a one off mentor meeting unless you guys decide that you'd like to meet again.
Lilliana Robinson: So like no expectations to have a follow up same with everyone in mentor madness. There's no expectation to have a follow up with any of these people unless they offer, or you ask, or you ask them to be your lead mentor.
Lilliana Robinson: But you guys should be having a lot of one off mentor meetings. The more you can network and be proactive about that the better.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is my favorite part of this presentation, where I took some of the feedback that we've gotten over the years from mentors, and I just copy and pasted it into here so that you guys could see what some of your predecessors received, and you can avoid those in the future.
Lilliana Robinson: They wasted the meaning because the whole time I was trying to understand their business.
Lilliana Robinson: As you can guess, this was probably said about someone, not probably I know who it is, so they didn't introduce their business in a concise and clear manner, so they were. They either didn't give the elevator pitch at the front, or they gave it in a very like non concise, non clear manner, where they lost the mentor along the way while they were kind of like rambling through it. And then
Lilliana Robinson: the mentor felt the meeting was wasted. So if the mentor doesn't understand at the top of the call what your business does pause, and then maybe re explain like, if you can tell that they don't get it, just pause and re
Lilliana Robinson: like realigned, so that the meeting is not wasted. But even better than that, even better than recovering. The meeting is just starting out great, with very crisp beam
Lilliana Robinson: short and concise and clear. 1 min elevator pitch.
Lilliana Robinson: Next it was clear they didn't know who I was. This is so embarrassing because it only takes a quick like Linkedin. Search to at least see who these people are. Some of them have done some great things where it's like very clear. If you don't know who they are.
Lilliana Robinson: And that person's not going to want to help you very much. They probably would have been able to connect this founder with some amazing people, but because
Lilliana Robinson: the founder didn't show up in a very prepared, well researched, respectful way. This mentor did not want to help the founder any more
Lilliana Robinson: clearly like I mean, that makes sense. If you feel like the founder didn't appreciate your time. You're not going to want to give them any more ton, so don't do that.
Lilliana Robinson: They asked me for a personal favor for a loved one. It was very unprofessional. So this like this.
Lilliana Robinson: some of you might be like kind of chuckling to yourselves, because it seems obvious. But the concept is what's important here. You're here for a professional capacity. The mentor does not expect you to ask them about anything outside of like helping with your company, you can develop a pro like a personal relationship with them. Outside of that.
Lilliana Robinson: like some of our founders play pickle ball with some of our mentors and stuff like that, but that should come later. All these mentors are coming under the guise under the assumption that
Lilliana Robinson: they're here to answer questions about your business, your current business, that you were accepted into tech stars. For
Lilliana Robinson: this is a true story. We had to sit down one of our founders, because he asked the mentor about something for his girlfriend, like trying to get her a job with him or something. It was a long time ago, so I can't remember exactly the details, but that Mentor did not like that, and he told the other mentors that that happened
Lilliana Robinson: which was very tragic for that founder. So just know when you do something that is maybe not acceptable to a mentor. They will tell the other mentors, and then that will affect you. So that's why we're having this session right now.
Lilliana Robinson: They talked at me the entire time, and I barely got a word in this point of feedback is the most common one I get
Lilliana Robinson: like, I said, we all love to speak about the things that we're doing. That's why you guys got into text stars because you're so passionate about what you're doing. But this is a time really to listen.
Lilliana Robinson: If they ask you questions, make sure you keep your answers to their questions tight.
Lilliana Robinson: because you don't wanna spend the entire meeting answering their questions. You wanna spend the entire meeting listening to them. So every time they ask you something. Really try to keep that answer concise, so that you're giving them the information they need to be able to advise you. But you're not spending forever just talking about your company.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm not sure how to help them, because they didn't have a point to ask. This is the second most piece of most common piece of feedback that we get, which is lack of objective. So they'll say, like I liked the founder. But like I mean, I didn't really know what they needed, or they they just seemed to be okay, like they didn't really want anything from me. So it's just like neutral, and the mentors just kind of shaking their head with, I wasn't really able to help them. That to me is a wasted opportunity. You definitely wanna go in there with an objective
Lilliana Robinson: or multiple objectives. It could be like you. I want advice on these 3 things, or the objective is like, I know you can connect me with a lot of people. So my objective is to like, tell you where we need help, and maybe we can brainstorm. My objective is to hear from your experience in this very specific
Lilliana Robinson: problem that I know you had. That I know you face when you were building Xyz. Some of them are investors. So maybe it's like, I know you have a Portfolio company who has faced a similar problem. Can you tell me about it?
Lilliana Robinson: All of those are acceptable. There are a myriad of other objectives that would be awesome as well. Just make sure that you have a reason for the call, and that you know what you want to get out of it so that they can help you.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, does anyone have questions about the during the meeting's piece before we move to after
Lilliana Robinson: David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, one slide earlier. You show the screen where it was around. If this individual cannot help you. Hey? Who in your network can help you? Is that something we can still use, even if they were helpful like, Hey, you're really really helpful. Is there someone else I can still talk to, because I don't want it to come off as like they weren't when they actually were. It just feels like there's definitely more wisdom they can offer in in network it as well. And so
David Akinyemi (he/him): how would that go? Or how does that sound?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think you're already thinking about it in the right way. So first like, Tell them like, Hey, this was super helpful. And like I'm gonna follow up with everything. I heard us talk about, but I know that you're in a space where there are like even more incredible people like like yourself.
Lilliana Robinson: Would you mind connecting me with, like anyone in your network who you think would be helpful in like in a similar space, like we talked about to day like, just be really respectful and complimentary, the more you can compliment them and express gratitude, the more that they all be willing to help you.
Lilliana Robinson: But you should definitely ask these people for more connections, even if they were helpful. Max.
Max Pinckney: yeah. So I know that the Ceos will be leading these, and the kind of the Css. Will take on more of like a note taker role. But how would you recommend kind of like? For, like my own personal, like professional development, like making those connections while not impeding the process, you know. Like.
Lilliana Robinson: well, you guys don't have to be mute. It's not like a like the Jtb. Where we recommend that you don't speak as much. It's just like the Ceos are driving it. So I've had a lot of Cxos like Lend a hand in the conversation, answering some of the mentors questions. Maybe this, maybe you reserve like one of the 3 questions you have specifically for the Cxo to ask. So you're making that connection as well. So you're more than welcome to speak in the call. I would just make sure that you're
Lilliana Robinson: not talking over each other, and then you're making sure that the CEO is the one that's pitching the business just that they can get that practice in. But this is also an opportunity for you, Max, and all other Cxos on the line to make that connection. So you're not just there as a notaker, not talking, and you're not going to make that connection, I would. I would advise you to at least speak once or twice. So then, at the end you can friend them on Linkedin, and then, if you continue a mentor like relationship with them, you can be on the call again and again.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool.
Lilliana Robinson: awesome. Bob.
Bob Van Dell II: I'm curious. Does tech stars provide some baseline
Bob Van Dell II: grooming or expectation setting or
Bob Van Dell II:  just ensuring, like the mentorship practice from the mentor side is consistently high quality as well. For example, one of the slides you showed had me worried. If taken the wrong way. It was clear they didn't know who I was can be completely egocentric and not something I would expect from a mentor like they're there to mentor, not be known. Like, you know. I how dare you
Bob Van Dell II: like? II personally don't like the idea of celebrity. But I'm also curious if there's like consistency in terms of like mentors coming into the mentorship, matching and everything with, like the same set of expectations in terms of
Bob Van Dell II: the service expected to be provided by Techstar's mentors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's a great question, Bob. I'm sorry I'm gonna jump in real quickly on, I'll let you take it. But one piece here is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think, what that quote may be referring to, and what she's referring to is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: favoritism on the founder side. So sometimes the founders you all will interact with some mentors different than others.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you'll have known who someone is and engage with them on experience, and then you'd go into another meeting, not taking it seriously, not being attentive, maybe downplaying the fact that their their background or credentials didn't seem to strike your fancy when it comes to who you're talking to. And then if they end up in a debrief group together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They're gonna go wait! Oh, wow! So they were actually a good founder to you, but just a bad founder to me. So. But yes, we also set expectations on our side with those mentors. And I'll let Lilian elaborate.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's exactly what Neil described is exactly what happened with that mentor. So there was a person that had a perfect background to help this person, but because the founder, for whatever reason, didn't feel like that person, was really worth their time they didn't take advantage of it. And then that that mentor, who was actually extremely humble and kind person, was kind of hurt
Lilliana Robinson: because it's like I could have offered them so much, and they just like didn't care enough. Or maybe they didn't look into my background enough to take advantage of that. And like they're not about to tell you their whole life story. So if you come on the on the call and don't know that they're just gonna be seemingly like a nobody.
Lilliana Robinson: So we try really hard not to have egocentric people. We screen the mentors. And at the end you guys will do this as well. All of the founders rate each of the mentors that they met with and give us feedback. So we're gonna collect feedback on zoom with you guys as well as written, and then we take all of that and evaluate. So every single time we prune, and then we bring in more to replace when people are not up to our standard, and we've done that countless times like we've removed one or 2 every single time.
Lilliana Robinson: We also set the expectations they should not be selling you. So they've all already known that and we set the expectation about the altruism, and that it's really give first, and that they're not coming here to expect anything
Lilliana Robinson: that being said. There are a few people that are entrepreneurs, and they're proud of what they've done, and they will talk about it. So just know that there's some strong personalities. But in general we try to keep it at like a compassionate group.
Lilliana Robinson: It's just like the our team, right? We only want to be around people that we think are kind, good humans. Tune deck.
Tunde IO: Thanks, Iliana, it's it's a question I want on meeting etiquette, and I think you had mentioned around like having the video on like, don't don't be in a background that it might be a bit distracting. It's around
Tunde IO: use of like note taking as well. That is obviously a lot of us use on these note taking apps. They're very helpful. Myself on time. I just recently started using one that we find very helpful when speaking to customers. What is the general view internally with your team, because I guess most of these apps will probably have to come in out in the last, maybe 6 months. So maybe the last cohort might might have had. You might have seen people use it. So just like, what is your W. What is your kind of what are your thoughts on it?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So my thoughts are that it's whatever the mentor wants. So some of them are gonna be like. So you go in. You'll have the note taker, because we'll make sure. Chloe, make a note for the associates. Just move the note taker with the founder in the breakout rooms, so you'll come in. And then the first thing you should say is, I have this note taker. It's not gonna record is just gonna transcribe
Lilliana Robinson: and we'll keep it internal. Is that okay? And then the majority will probably say, Yes, there are a few that are like, Well, I can't like keep it real with you. If we're gonna like, record it with an AI, and then you'll have to say, Okay, that's fine. And then
Lilliana Robinson: maybe message. Whoever's running it, and we can put the notetaker in the waiting room. But most of them will say, it's fine. The one thing that we say is like we don't
Lilliana Robinson: ever want you guys to ask them to record to record the meeting.
Lilliana Robinson: because our mentors really don't like that. They feel that they can't speak candidly, and they're not expecting that. But most won't mind. Then I'll take your app, Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: II know for me. I know I always slightly. II move slightly differently when I know that there's any type of recording or documentation outside of your own personal notes that you're taking
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with your team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when I meet with founders for Mr. Madness, and things like that. So just pointing it out that you know the trade off may not be worth it. If you want to have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it like the rost, or most candid conversation with someone it it like, just think, it's like you go to a physical meeting with the mentor, and you've got like a robot next to you that's like tracking and watching what you all are talking about like it'd be kinda weird. Right? So just think about like that like a lot of these mentors are older and old school. So all this new tech stuff that people are using to make things a little easier, more convenient.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a there's a risk and a trade off there of a more natural and organic conversation.
Lilliana Robinson: Well said, I'm curious.
Vincent Lucero: Sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Then
Vincent Lucero: I'll be transparent about some open about this. So I have, you know, Neil, and shout, John, let you know I have mental health, the way the mental health issue with Adhd. So paying attention in that moment doesn't always work for me. I know that others in this community also struggle with that. One of the superpowers of
Vincent Lucero: recording is that I can go back and relist to it and get additional perspective thereafter. Does techstars have an official kind of guidance? Or can we work with corporate to be more inclusive of people with mental disabilities, and how to teach the mentors to be willing to go on record and work with the legal team to not make them get in trouble if they do dismulge something.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Yeah. So we're we're yeah, I shared your note. Vincent. By the way, so we're definitely looking into that. What I will say, though, is the my, my point still stays. Yeah. Yeah. So what I'm saying is is like, regardless of like, whatever accommodations could be made, we'll absolutely do that to the best of our ability.
Vincent Lucero: And let the mentors know as well. But I'm just letting you know that it's just like a human thing. Yeah, it it 100. It's a cultural thing, right? Like we used to not include certain people. And obviously the world's changing. And just one way we go by having the legal implications of when you give advice is different than the other types of non inclusion. Right? You don't want to be legally in trouble. If you record somebody
Lilliana Robinson: absolutely, and you can share that with them. Vince, if you feel comfortable, like most, will say yes without you saying anything. If someone says No, you can say Hey, like, II understand your opinion. Just want to level with you like this one going through. And I would like, if I could record like, could you take a second. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: And then they'll probably say yes. If someone for some reason says known to you events, we can talk about it later. But in general for those who maybe would be able to suffice. Just note taking. That's usually the advice we give, because it's better where it's just like the faces. But of course, anyone who needs extra accommodation should get those
Lilliana Robinson: okay. More questions about, oh, yeah, that's true, Nelson. Yeah, Vince, that is why it's good to have a plus one to take notes. But of course, what you said about listening back isn't able with just note taking. So we'll work with you one on one on that.
Lilliana Robinson: Any other questions about during the meeting?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. So after after is arguably as important as during the meeting, because how you follow up is everything. So after the meeting, send a thank you. Email within 48 h of having the call, you should send a thank you. Email. And this is key include any follow up on next steps they gave you. This is huge because the mentors remember this stuff. So they remember if they told you to send them a forwardable for XYZ. Person.
Lilliana Robinson: You don't have to include the forwardable in this. Thank you. Email. You have to follow up knowing, like just saying the next step. So thank you for this. This was amazing. I learned XYZ. So summarizing what you learned or what the meeting meant to you is like a master move.
Lilliana Robinson: And then regarding next steps, I know that you would like me to send affordable for this person. I will have that to you like next week. Thank you for all your help.
Lilliana Robinson: You've been sent, or whoever's sending it.
Lilliana Robinson: That is a master move to include the summary of what you learned. But bare minimum is, Thank you. And any follow-ups. So if they tell you like, oh, wow! I would love to review your deck. Please send it over.
Lilliana Robinson: And you don't say it in the thank you. Email, they're gonna be like, oh, I guess that person doesn't want help with that, or like they'll just think that you don't follow through. It's very good hygiene to always come back and then say you decide to go in a different manner. Say they say they'll they'll review your deck. But then you decide you're not going to fundraise anymore, and it's irrelevant still include that in the follow up and say, Thank you for offering to review my deck. We're actually going in a different direction, and I'll message you in a few months like when that's more relevant. But I appreciate you being willing. That happens a lot, too.
Lilliana Robinson: So whatever it is, just make sure that you're following up and closing the loop, so no empty threads.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And while we don't recommend asking this, and maybe you have a slide for this, Liliana, but some of them will invest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you never know. So you should definitely like, follow this guideline and and and make sure you do 100% follow up. because. W. Like, we've had plenty of examples of mentors writing angel checks for founders.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I kind of alluded to that about the before, where it's like, we're not asking for money, but a lot of it does
Lilliana Robinson: end up being that way which is awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So in this, in the follow up. This is the only thing a lot of founders get bogged down by the amount of like. Follow up that they need to do so. Just take it easy. Make sure that you don't let it pile up every 48 h you should be sending out. Thank yous to the people that you met in the day before. Utilize your team to help you pre writing. A lot of that can help as well like lots of automation, because you're gonna be really tired from doing all these meetings.
Lilliana Robinson: and we also don't have meetings on Friday, either of the weeks, so we purposely don't do like 5 days, so that you can have that catch up day. And also for mental well, being, because it's gonna be a lot and a lot of us are introverts. And you need to recharge your social battery with those
Lilliana Robinson: 3 days off. So this is the after. Do people have questions about after the meeting? What is expected. Yeah, David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): So one thing I think it. Thanks. Jonah, the guy who spoke this morning around.
David Akinyemi (he/him): How like early on with these investor conversations like
David Akinyemi (he/him): you may not have something to offer, and and kind of like how maybe it's like your unique insight around the industry that could be helpful in the future, like, what are some ways that we can kinda like
David Akinyemi (he/him): not be so like, obviously, we're trying to get the most out of these resources, but offer some sort of like give as well like. Have you seen that done successfully? Following after these calls like
David Akinyemi (he/him): I don't.
Lilliana Robinson: So what John Hill was talking about was that one of the for those who missed it. One of the reasons that mentors like to mentor people at tech stars is to get an insight into like the newest tech for the next 3 to 5 years. So you guys are like their insight into the young hip like new technologies that maybe they're not seeing in their own careers.
Lilliana Robinson: You don't have to explicitly do that like you just explaining your problem space and what you're working on. Does that so? One you don't have to worry about that, David. But 2, for the give a great question is like.
Lilliana Robinson: I know that, like we're an early stage startup and may not be super helpful. But is there any way that we can support you? You guys already asked us that which is like so sweet, Neil, do you have an example of that?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't. I don't have that. What I do have those in perspective as a mentor for many years for tech stars. So I mentioned for tech stars for 8 or 9 years before I joined a company, and the ultimate satisfaction that I had were for taking that time is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the founders who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kept me in the loop with their progress, and helped me realize that I made a small but meaningful difference in their journey in a positive way. That's why most of them are signing up to do this is because they want to see all succeed, and they love the fact that they get to stay connected to you and know that they actually contributed to that.
Lilliana Robinson: One example of that is asking them in the follow up email that I have on the screen right now, if they would like to be part of your investor updates, and you don't have to call them investor updates. Call them your weekly updates
Lilliana Robinson: if you and ask them in the meeting, and they say, Yes, you can follow up, saying, I've added you, and here's our most recent one. If you didn't ask them in the meeting, you can say it in this email, do you want to be part of my weekly updates, and if some one helped you during mentor madness, not if when multiple people help you, you should put them in a shout of section. Let them see their name in the weekly updates. That is a huge give back
Lilliana Robinson: the mentors, love that
Lilliana Robinson: I would be wary if multiple people helped you, and you don't include them. Some of them get sad. So like if they really feel like they made a difference, and they don't make it into the shadows. Then, like sometimes they message us like, Oh, I really thought I helped this group, but they didn't put it in there so like they care a lot more than you would think about your shout out Section. But that's a great way to give back like this person really helped us really appreciate how they changed our view on how to structure. Xyz.
Lilliana Robinson: that's amazing.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so you are all very prepared. I like to end this by telling you all like you're they're gonna love you. And as long as you do all of the prep here, it's gonna go extremely smoothly get enough sleep. Make sure that you have practice your elevator pitch, and you're ready to answer any questions that they have. But also don't stress about it. It's gonna be really fun. And it's a lot of people's favorite part of program is mentor madness.
Lilliana Robinson: Yup.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah. And just as a note, though, the way you carry yourself and interact with these mentors.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It doesn't just reflect on you. It reflects on the rest of your founders in the class, and it reflects on us. So like your professionalism going into these, will basically set us up for success, or maybe some struggling moments down the road for future classes and for future engagement with that mentor.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: you've got this. Now. I'll take questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Their time.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Yeah, sorry if you're ready if you already answer that. But for the calls on zoom, are we gonna get a link? Should we initiate the the invitation? Yeah, it'll be all our link. So the 4 of you like you could have a group with 3 other companies. You all have one link for that session, and it'll be a different link every day.
Lilliana Robinson: and you go on that for that whole session. So all 4 meetings will be on that one link, and we'll move you around breakout rooms. So you do not need to send a zoom link for these meetings. We have it all covered.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Thanks. Do do you know when we're gonna get those invitations? It'll just be what's on the program calendar so like those blocks that are there right now, those will be your blocks, and we'll just put the zoom link in there.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Chloe Lannert: yeah, you can add group a group B zoom links by like end of day tomorrow latest. But it's each session is a round robin style. So everyone jumps into the same room and we rotate you through breakout rooms with the 4 mentors.
Lilliana Robinson: That's it.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, that was basically my question, so can we decline the sections that we're not in, or are they? Are the current placeholders just going to drop off?
Lilliana Robinson: No, that. Well, you don't decline it because you guys aren't invited to those. They're just on the calendar like what Chloe was saying is that on your own personal calendar you can copy the blocks that you are going to be in, and then you could ignore the rest.
Lilliana Robinson: or you can just know that those are your blocks, and you can ignore the others. But we're not like you're not invited. It's just a separate calendar. So you don't
Nelson Mitchell: thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: Hi, this Chloe, I have a question for you, I ping you in the in the
Dan Ponomarenko: so if that time it doesn't work for my second co-founder, because, like 3 Pm. Pacific time, it's very, very late for Europe. Is there any chance we can
Dan Ponomarenko: like? Move it around?
Chloe Lannert: I will get back to you. I'll take a look at your situation and see if there's anyone else we can swap you with. No guarantees. But I'll I'll look into that and follow up with you after this call.
Dan Ponomarenko: Okay, okay? Sounds good. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, Leona, just to clarify one more time. Do we receive feedback from you guys, from the mentors about what the mentors may say about us.
Kevin: And how often do we receive that feedback?
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, and once so yes, you get it? And we compile it from all 8 days, and we put into one document, and you'll get it at the end of Mentor madness. So like a few days after Mentor. Madness ends
Lilliana Robinson: probably at the start of week 5. And that's part of why we all come together in week 5, so we can help you decide how to implement those that feedback into actionable insights.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and just so, you all know, you should know, like we we have something that isn't
Neal Sáles-Griffin: th. There's no perfect process here, and everybody in Texas across the world is trying to iterate on how to run the best version of your madness.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: For ours. We
Neal Sáles-Griffin: choose to do the debrief
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then share the raw feedback from all of them anonymously, because what we've learned is that when it's anonymous, and when the mentors know that it allows them to be extremely candid in a way that gives you all additional perspective and insight about what is actually going on and what they think.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are some founders that want to name names. They want to know who said that. and just know that you can also get feedback from them, live when you meet with them. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: unfortunately, I know it's not ideal to not know everyone and what they're saying. But at the same time, I think the raw aggregate of the information itself we found to be more beneficial and more honest with this format and approach
Lilliana Robinson: Doug, did you, Doug and Vincent? Did you guys hear me earlier when I was explaining why we don't put it after the first week, cause I can say it again. So we iterate. And we like try different things. So one program we were thinking like, Oh, maybe we should give the feedback during after the first week, and then they can implement it for the second week, and it was horrible. All of our founders who had done so well in week 3
Lilliana Robinson: just bombed week 4. So like the second week of Mentor madness because they were in their heads. So they were worried so much about all the feedback that they had gotten in week 3. And then they weren't focused on the current mentors they were meeting with, and what they had to say, completely separate set of people. They were really self conscious. And they were just thinking about all the
Lilliana Robinson: implementations and kind of implications. That's the way I'm looking for of the feedback rather than what is in front of them. So instead, you're going to be present for all 2 weeks, and then we'll worry about implications afterward.
Lilliana Robinson: Another cool, yeah. Sorry. Another cool thing that happens
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is, you all will naturally get better as you go. So even in one single day from your first meeting to your fourth meeting.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll hear the mentors in the debrief, and they'll go. Wow! You talked to a completely different team than I did.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because you all basically figure out you find your stride. You know how to introduce yourself, or you take feedback, live from a mentor about what you described versus. What would be a better way to talk about it. So just know that that'll be natural, too. Is you all are just gonna evolve as you go.
Lilliana Robinson: That has actually happened. So sometimes we've had people have a breakthrough with one mentor, and then they pitch
Lilliana Robinson: a completely different like way of looking at the business in the other 2 meetings, and then the mentors figure that out like, Oh, you must have really helped them because they changed it live which is awesome. Next.
Max Pinckney: would you would you recommend like asking for any feedback at the end of your like meeting with them?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think that's awesome asking for feedback asking what they think like if you're the kind of person that wants tough love like letting them know that like, hey loves off like I wanna hear it.
Lilliana Robinson: Otherwise you'll all get it in like writing later. So it's up to you, and also the things that they say to you are still gonna be less than what they would say to like me and Neil. So you'll get both
Lilliana Robinson: any other questions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have one last thing to say Louisiana about it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I wanna remind you all I've said this plenty of times already in the past few weeks. but these are just people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they're not the same as us in that. They haven't worked with over a hundred companies, and at the in depth level that we have through techstars. So a lot of them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have their own expectations for themselves and their performance and helping you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They proudly list that they're a text mentor on their Linkedin. Sometimes they tell other people that they're involved with textiles, and they work with the coolest and best companies. So what's gonna happen is, there's a lot of them might come off more certain and more confident about what they're saying. Then what might be beneficial to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just know that you have to take everything that's being said to you with a grain of salt, because it's your business, not theirs. And for them they're spending 30 to 45 min evaluating you and telling you what they think you should do. You've been spending the past few years, if not longer, on on realizing this, so just make sure you always keep that in mind.
Lilliana Robinson: Remember, we said an orientation that like we don't like to be prescriptive, but some people do try to tell you what to do. And that's what's gonna happen. They're going to tell you that this is a hundred percent, the way you should go. And you're going to have to make sure that you take it with a grain of salt and pump the brakes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Did you talk about whiplash?
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, I didn't talk about the prescriptive nature. So like we've had some companies come out and say, like, this person told us, like, we need to go B to see like we've been getting it wrong with B. Twob. And we're starting that tomorrow. And then Neil and I have to be like, hold on. This person heard about your business for 20 min. Are you sure this is the best way? It's data like, maybe that is the best way you should now consider it. Open a conversation with your team or with us. And like, think about it, it's not
Lilliana Robinson: prescriptive, a hundred percent. This is what we're doing. And it's gonna be hard to think that way cause these mentors extremely impressive. So when you have someone like Troy who has like, seen what he's seen, and as as knowledgeable as he is, it's hard not to just do everything he says. That's why we try not to tell you what to do, because it's still your business, and they actually don't expect you to do everything that they say, even when they speak with certainty. If it went poorly, and you came back and told them that it was their fault, they would question, why you took them so seriously.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. And sometimes there are investors and mentors with hubris who actually do get upset when you don't do what they say. That's happened to me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm just like sorry dog like I gotta run my business. So you know, sometimes I'm gonna do what you like. Sometimes I'm not, but they're just gonna have to live with that. And we could still be friends like the advice that choice given me. I follow like half the time, and he gets so mad mad at me when I don't. But I don't really care, and he still loves me.
Lilliana Robinson: That's such a good example.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. Well, I'm gonna stop the recording. I'll stick around for extra questions. But you guys are gonna do great. So you're gonna meet with Ferona this afternoon on how to do them the research. Tomorrow you'll get your list of mentors and a few more pieces of details for mentor madness. And then we have Friday mostly free except for the JP. Morgan. Workshop. So you can spend Friday researching, and then we'll kick off on Monday
Lilliana Robinson: any other questions that you have. I'll stick around. But I'm super excited for you guys. It's gonna be great.
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Leanna.